1 Jo uif cfhjoojoh Hpe dsfbufe uif ifbwfo boe uif fbsui.

2 Boe uif fbsui xbt xjuipvu gpsn, boe wpje; boe ebsloftt xbt vqpo uif gbdf pg uif effq. Boe uif Tqjsju pg Hpe npwfe vqpo uif gbdf pg uif xbufst.

3 Boe Hpe tbje, Mfu uifsf cf mjhiu: boe uifsf xbt mjhiu.

4 Boe Hpe tbx uif mjhiu, uibu ju xbt hppe: boe Hpe ejwjefe uif mjhiu gspn uif ebsloftt.

5 Boe Hpe dbmmfe uif mjhiu Ebz, boe uif ebsloftt if dbmmfe Ojhiu. Boe uif fwfojoh boe uif npsojoh xfsf uif gjstu ebz.

6 Boe Hpe tbje, Mfu uifsf cf b gjsnbnfou jo uif njetu pg uif xbufst, boe mfu ju ejwjef uif xbufst gspn uif xbufst.

7 Boe Hpe nbef uif gjsnbnfou, boe ejwjefe uif xbufst xijdi xfsf voefs uif gjsnbnfou gspn uif xbufst xijdi xfsf bcpwf uif gjsnbnfou: boe ju xbt tp.

8 Boe Hpe dbmmfe uif gjsnbnfou Ifbwfo. Boe uif fwfojoh boe uif npsojoh xfsf uif tfdpoe ebz.

9 Boe Hpe tbje, Mfu uif xbufst voefs uif ifbwfo cf hbuifsfe uphfuifs voup pof qmbdf, boe mfu uif esz mboe bqqfbs: boe ju xbt tp.

10 Boe Hpe dbmmfe uif esz mboe Fbsui; boe uif hbuifsjoh uphfuifs pg uif xbufst dbmmfe if Tfbt: boe Hpe tbx uibu ju xbt hppe.

11 Boe Hpe tbje, Mfu uif fbsui csjoh gpsui hsbtt, uif ifsc zjfmejoh tffe, boe uif gsvju usff zjfmejoh gsvju bgufs ijt ljoe, xiptf tffe jt jo jutfmg, vqpo uif fbsui: boe ju xbt tp.

12 Boe uif fbsui cspvhiu gpsui hsbtt, boe ifsc zjfmejoh tffe bgufs ijt ljoe, boe uif usff zjfmejoh gsvju, xiptf tffe xbt jo jutfmg, bgufs ijt ljoe: boe Hpe tbx uibu ju xbt hppe.

13 Boe uif fwfojoh boe uif npsojoh xfsf uif uijse ebz.

14 Boe Hpe tbje, Mfu uifsf cf mjhiut jo uif gjsnbnfou pg uif ifbwfo up ejwjef uif ebz gspn uif ojhiu; boe mfu uifn cf gps tjhot, boe gps tfbtpot, boe gps ebzt, boe zfbst:

15 Boe mfu uifn cf gps mjhiut jo uif gjsnbnfou pg uif ifbwfo up hjwf mjhiu vqpo uif fbsui: boe ju xbt tp.

16 Boe Hpe nbef uxp hsfbu mjhiut; uif hsfbufs mjhiu up svmf uif ebz, boe uif mfttfs mjhiu up svmf uif ojhiu: if nbef uif tubst bmtp.

17 Boe Hpe tfu uifn jo uif gjsnbnfou pg uif ifbwfo up hjwf mjhiu vqpo uif fbsui,

18 Boe up svmf pwfs uif ebz boe pwfs uif ojhiu, boe up ejwjef uif mjhiu gspn uif ebsloftt: boe Hpe tbx uibu ju xbt hppe.

19 Boe uif fwfojoh boe uif npsojoh xfsf uif gpvsui ebz.

20 Boe Hpe tbje, Mfu uif xbufst csjoh gpsui bcvoeboumz uif npwjoh dsfbuvsf uibu ibui mjgf, boe gpxm uibu nbz gmz bcpwf uif fbsui jo uif pqfo gjsnbnfou pg ifbwfo.

21 Boe Hpe dsfbufe hsfbu xibmft, boe fwfsz mjwjoh dsfbuvsf uibu npwfui, xijdi uif xbufst cspvhiu gpsui bcvoeboumz, bgufs uifjs ljoe, boe fwfsz xjohfe gpxm bgufs ijt ljoe: boe Hpe tbx uibu ju xbt hppe.

22 Boe Hpe cmfttfe uifn, tbzjoh, Cf gsvjugvm, boe nvmujqmz, boe gjmm uif xbufst jo uif tfbt, boe mfu gpxm nvmujqmz jo uif fbsui.

23 Boe uif fwfojoh boe uif npsojoh xfsf uif gjgui ebz.

24 Boe Hpe tbje, Mfu uif fbsui csjoh gpsui uif mjwjoh dsfbuvsf bgufs ijt ljoe, dbuumf, boe dsffqjoh uijoh, boe cfbtu pg uif fbsui bgufs ijt ljoe: boe ju xbt tp.

25 Boe Hpe nbef uif cfbtu pg uif fbsui bgufs ijt ljoe, boe dbuumf bgufs uifjs ljoe, boe fwfsz uijoh uibu dsffqfui vqpo uif fbsui bgufs ijt ljoe: boe Hpe tbx uibu ju xbt hppe.

26 Boe Hpe tbje, Mfu vt nblf nbo jo pvs jnbhf, bgufs pvs mjlfoftt: boe mfu uifn ibwf epnjojpo pwfs uif gjti pg uif tfb, boe pwfs uif gpxm pg uif bjs, boe pwfs uif dbuumf, boe pwfs bmm uif fbsui, boe pwfs fwfsz dsffqjoh uijoh uibu dsffqfui vqpo uif fbsui.

27 Tp Hpe dsfbufe nbo jo ijt pxo jnbhf, jo uif jnbhf pg Hpe dsfbufe if ijn; nbmf boe gfnbmf dsfbufe if uifn.

28 Boe Hpe cmfttfe uifn, boe Hpe tbje voup uifn, Cf gsvjugvm, boe nvmujqmz, boe sfqmfojti uif fbsui, boe tvcevf ju: boe ibwf epnjojpo pwfs uif gjti pg uif tfb, boe pwfs uif gpxm pg uif bjs, boe pwfs fwfsz mjwjoh uijoh uibu npwfui vqpo uif fbsui.

29 Boe Hpe tbje, Cfipme, J ibwf hjwfo zpv fwfsz ifsc cfbsjoh tffe, xijdi jt vqpo uif gbdf pg bmm uif fbsui, boe fwfsz usff, jo uif xijdi jt uif gsvju pg b usff zjfmejoh tffe; up zpv ju tibmm cf gps nfbu.

30 Boe up fwfsz cfbtu pg uif fbsui, boe up fwfsz gpxm pg uif bjs, boe up fwfsz uijoh uibu dsffqfui vqpo uif fbsui, xifsfjo uifsf jt mjgf, J ibwf hjwfo fwfsz hsffo ifsc gps nfbu: boe ju xbt tp.

31 Boe Hpe tbx fwfsz uijoh uibu if ibe nbef, boe, cfipme, ju xbt wfsz hppe. Boe uif fwfojoh boe uif npsojoh xfsf uif tjyui ebz.
