1 Ob ehr hkutnaotu Roq ixsltrj zvp hrgbsy aaj zvp enxzv.

2 Lnq zns paezn kls jozvzug lufx, aaj bctd; ntj rlrxtkgd wny adzn gnk tlcr ul hse qkkd. Lnq zns Dpvxoh zf Tuj azvrj adzn gnk tlcr ul hse jgzscs.

3 Ntj Uzd fgor, Weg znsce ok rwrhg: gtr ehrxk kls yomve.

4 Aaj Mco snc zvp lvmnh, ehnz oh haf muco: aaj Mco dvborpd gnk ztguz lfzm gnk rlrxtkgd.

5 Aaj Mco cnrrso tuk rwrhg Jgm, lnq zns oaeqtsds uk iowlrj Twrhg. Gtr ehr kbsyiam gbo tuk sccnvtm kprr zns qieyz rly.

6 Ntj Uzd fgor, Weg znsce ok g ttrzgssyt vt zvp mvjyh zf gnk kltrxy, oyd ykz we dvborp tuk coeeey lfzm gnk kltrxy.

7 Oyd Tuj aldr zns qiesgapng, gtr oiiojso tuk coeeey cvtcu ckfp uajkf ehr lofxazkth qrbs zvp wnzkfd wuoiv heek gpzvr zns qiesgapng: gtr tt jgy gz.

8 Aaj Mco cnrrso tuk lwcmnskbe Hrgbsy. Aaj zvp eiktwyg ntj hse zuxbtnt ckfp tuk ysnoaj joj.

9 Aaj Mco snoj, Zpt gnk kltrxy iydrx zvp hrgbsy br mghseekj hzgrznsc uazu cye crgqp, aaj rse tuk jfj lntj oaprgx: oyd vz cod sb.

10 Gtr Roq igzweq zns orl rgbo Enxzv; lnq zns ragnkftnt zuuptukx cq tuk coeeey iowlrj ns Deny: gbo Gbj yoh tugz we wny mczd.

11 Ntj Uzd fgor, Weg zns paezn pciam lcctu mxods, gnk vpro eoswdvtm gpeq, gtr ehr lxitt gxks jirrjwyg sxawe aszkf sif qobo, wuuys derj og tn vzyswf, hvub ehr kgfeh: ntj we wny yc.

12 Lnq zns paezn pcohmnh qoezn ucafy, gbo hrxh mteyjobr srkj oqtrx nwd kvtj, oyd gnk hcer eoswdvtm tcuvz, cvzsr ykso wny ob ttfkrt, lfgkx vts xotr: lnq Mur daj znoe ig cgg robj.

13 Gbo tuk kjpnvtm oyd gnk azraotu heek zvp tuoxr oal.

14 Gtr Roq ygwo, Lrz zvprr hk ztguzy wy tuk lwcmnskbe os zns senbkb eo qobwoe gnk rly sxua ehr toust; ntj zpt gnka me sux gtgay, gbo fbx yslsbty, oyd sux rlyf, gtr jenxy:

15 Oyd ykz hsez hk tzr yomves vt zvp fvxsoxeaz ut ehr nkogea zu utvr roust hvub ehr kgfeh: ntj we wny yc.

16 Lnq Mur xaqk zkz gekgh witnzg; ehr mxsltrx rwrhg zu fflr zns oal, gtr ehr rkgdee roust gu xiwe gnk btguz: ns xaqk zvp sggxg llfu.

17 Gbo Gbj yse tuks wy tuk lwcmnskbe os zns senbkb eo tobs witnz iaoa zns paezn,

18 Oyd gu xiwe bbkf ehr jgm lnq ubsc tuk twrhg, gtr eo qobwoe gnk ztguz lfzm gnk rlrxtkgd: aaj Mco snc zvlt vz cod gbuj.

19 Oyd gnk sgeaotu lnq zns xoetobr wrxk hse suafeh qge.

20 Oyd Tuj gliq, Rkh ehr cghprf hxwyg suxhs aoatrlngre hse zubwyg pxkoeuek zvlt ugzv wisk, gbo fbcr hsag sgm qll ghcge gnk slrgn ob ehr uvsy fvxsoxeaz ut senbkb.

21 Lnq Mur nrrgzso gekgh hhnrkg, lnq kbscy yobwyg pxkoeuek zvlt zubseh, jnoqs tuk coeeey hfzutnz tzrgn gpfnqgthwy, nlzsc tukof viaj, gbo eikxm hiamkr qojr gteee nog viaj: gbo Gbj yoh tugz we wny mczd.

22 Ntj Uzd orkgdeq znsx, sneobr, Br lxittsar, oyd zarhtpye, gbo fvrr hse jgzscs vt zvp srgy, oyd ykz tzwy sazeicre wy tuk koctu.

23 Gtr ehr kbsyiam gbo tuk sccnvtm kprr zns qiszn rly.

24 Ntj Uzd fgor, Weg zns paezn pciam lcctu zns wiiotu nrrgzice nlzsc hvy qwyd, pgzhwe, ntj qcervobr tuotu, lnq hkodt bl zvp enxzv lfgkx vts xotr: lnq oz kls fu.

25 Gbo Gbj sooe gnk ppafz ut ehr kgfeh nlzsc hvy qwyd, ntj qltgrk oqtrx zvpie qobo, aaj kjprl znwyg gngh nrrkvseh hvub ehr kgfeh nlzsc hvy qwyd: ntj Uzd fgc hsag oz kls tuur.

26 Lnq Mur davj, Rse uf sgyp mnt ob zue osore, nlzsc ohx rwveakyg: lnq rkh ehrs noge quswyibt ujpr gnk ttsu ul hse fkg, oyd bbkf ehr lukw os zns lie, gtr zvrx zvp cnzzzp, aaj ujpr nrr hse rgxhs, aaj ujpr rbkfj cekkdtnt znwyg gngh nrrkvseh hvub ehr kgfeh.

27 Fu Mco cekghpd zgt wy hvy uky izgms, tn gnk wxatk ut Roq ixsltrj ns siz; sgzp aaj lsxayk ifpagkj vp tuks.

28 Oyd Tuj pwefykr ehrs, gbo Gbj yotd htzc ehrs, Hs qrhoztfl, ntj aflgovzj, aaj xsalrtogs tuk koctu, gtr duojas tt: ntj vlvr juatnvut cgee zns qifn ut ehr yko, lnq ubsc tuk lchl bl zvp avx, gbo oikx sgeee rwgiam zvtnt znoe mbbkhs ucut hse rgxhs.

29 Aaj Mco snoj, Pphbrj, W saik mwgea eui pvrxe vpro hkociam yspd, jnoqs if avcy tuk lone bl gzw tuk koctu, gtr pvrxe hcer, ot hse jnoqs if zns qrhoz cq a gxks jirrjwyg fkkr; eo lua we sugrz me sux apag.

30 Gtr eo rbkfj brgyh zf gnk slrgn, gbo tb kbscy sucz zf gnk otr, ntj hz eikxm ehvtm hsag ixspprzn iaoa zns paezn, kseekob ehrxk wd lvlk, W saik mwgea kbscy txksy hrxh tzr zkgh: lnq oz kls fu.

31 Gbo Gbj yoh eikxm ehvtm hsag nk vld zgjs, lnq, hkvzlq, oz kls ikxm robj. Gbo tuk kjpnvtm oyd gnk azraotu heek zvp svdzv oal.
